A team( or a work team ) is a group of people with complementary skills who work together to acheieve a specific goal.
In Motorola's RAZR team, the specific goal ws to develop (and ultimately bring to market) an ultrathin cell phone that would help restre the company's reputation.
In particular, members of a group- or ore accurately, a working group- go about their jobs independently and meet primarily to work towards a shared objectve.
Each manager is focused on the goals of their dept. because each is held accountable for meeting those goals.

5 KEY CHARACTERISICS OF TEAMS:
  -Share accountability for achieving specific common goals
  -Function interdependently
  -Require stability
  -Hold authority and decision making power
  -Operate in a social context
    -Have to get along with each other

Why do major organizations now rely so much on teams to improve operations? 
  -Executives at Xerox have reported that team-based operations are 30 percent more productive than conventional operations.

General Mills says that factories organized around team activities are 40 percent more productive than traditionally organized factories. 
FedEx says that teams reduced service errors (lost packages, incorrect bills) by 13 percent in the first year.

According to one study, team-based projects fail 50 to 70 percent of the time


CHART
Area of Performance	Firms Reporting Improvement
  Product and service quality	70%
  Customer service	67%
  Worker satisfaction	66%
  Quality of work life	63%
  Productivity	61%
  Competitiveness	50%
  Profitability	45%
  Absenteeism/turnover	23%

          TYPES OF TEAMS

Manager-Led Teams
  As its name implies, in the manager-led team the manager is the team leader and is in charge of setting team goals, assigning tasks, and monitoring the team’s performance. 
  The individual team members have relatively little autonomy. 
    Ex: Football team

Self-Managing Teams
  Self-managing teams (also known as self-directed teams) have considerable autonomy. They are usually small and often absorb activities that were once performed by traditional supervisors.
  A manager or team leader may determine overall goals, but the members of the self-managing team control the activities needed to achieve those goals.
  Not every self-managed team enjoys the same degree of autonomy. 
    Ex: 67% of self-managing teams can schedule work assignments, and only 14% can fire coworkers
    
    IN CLASS: Manager gives a goal, members decide how its gonna happen.

Cross-Functional Teams
  Many companies use cross-functional teams—teams that, as the name suggests, cut across an organization’s functional areas (operations, marketing, finance, and so on).
  A cross-functional team is designed to take advantage of the special expertise of members drawn from different functional areas of the company.
  Cross-functional teams figure prominently in the product-development process at Nike, where they take advantage of expertise from both inside and outside the company.
  Typically, team members include not only product designers, marketing specialists, and accountants but also sports-research experts, coaches, athletes, and even consumers.
    Ex: Motorola’s RAZR team was a cross-functional team; responsibility for developing the new product wasn’t passed along from the design team to the engineering team 
        but rather was entrusted to a special team composed of both designers and engineers.
  Committees and task forces, both of which are dedicated to specific issues or tasks, are often cross-functional teams.
  Problem-solving teams, which are created to study such issues as improving quality or reducing waste, may be either intradepartmental or cross- functional
    IN CLASS: Typically not a permanent team, after the goal is complete, they resume thei normal jobs.

Virtual Teams
  Technologies such as videoconferencing allow people to interact simultaneously and in real time, offering a number of advantages in conducting the business of a virtual team. 
  Team size does not seem to be an obstacle when it comes to virtual-team meetings; in building the F-35 Strike Fighter, U.S. defense contractor Lockheed Martin
  staked the $225 billion project on a virtual product-team of unprecedented global dimension, drawing on designers and engineers from the ranks of eight international partners
  from Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway, and Turkey.

  FACTORS IN EFFECTIVE TEAMWORK
Teams are most effective when the following factors are met:
  -Members depend on each other. When team members rely on each other to get the job done, team productivity and efficiency tend to be high.
  -Members trust one another.
  -Members work better together than individually. When team members perform better as a group than alone, collective performance exceeds individual performance.
  -Members become boosters. When each member is encouraged by other team members to do his or her best, collective results improve.
  -Team members enjoy being on the team.
  -Leadership rotates.

Group cohesiveness
  The idea of group cohesiveness refers to the attractiveness of a team to its members.
    Ex: a group is high in cohesiveness if its members enjoy being in the group

What makes a team cohesive??
  -Size. The bigger the team, the less satisfied members tend to be. When teams get too large, members find it harder to interact closely with other members; a few members tend to dominate team activities, and conflict becomes more likely.
  -Similarity. People usually get along better with people like themselves, and teams are generally more cohesive when members perceive fellow members as people who share their own attitudes and experience.
  -Success. When teams are successful, members are satisfied, and other people are more likely to be attracted to their teams.
  -Exclusiveness. The harder it is to get into a group, the happier the people who are already in it. Team status also increases members’ satisfaction.
  -Competition. Membership is valued more highly when there is motivation to achieve common goals and outperform other teams.

Groupthink: the tendency to conform to group pressure in making decisions, while failing to think critically or to consider outside influences.

As members of workplace teams, they need motivation, and when motivation is low, so are effectiveness and productivity. The difficulty of maintaining a high level of motivation is the chief cause of frustration among members of teams.
As such, it’s also a chief cause of ineffective teamwork, and that’s one reason why more employers now look for the ability to develop and sustain motivation when they’re hiring new managers.

Other factors that erode performance:
  -Unwillingness to cooperate (Passivity)
  -Lack of managerial support
  -Failure of managers to delegate authority

A survey of Fortune 1000 companies reveals that 79 percent use self-managing teams and 91 percent use other forms of employee work groups. 
Another survey found that the skill that most employers value in new employees is the ability to work in teams.

In particular, every team requires some mixture of three sets of skills:
  -Technical Skills
    -Not necessarily technological  EX: an accountants technical skill is accounting and math.
  -Decision-making and problem solving skills
  -Interpersonal Skills
  
  Decision and Interpersonal Skills increases as you go up the ladder in the business world
  Technical Skills fade

MEMBER ROLES

Task-Facilitating Roles
  Task-facilitating roles address challenge number one—accomplishing the team goals.
  Task facilitators are especially valuable when assignments aren’t clear or when progress is too slow.

Relationship-Building Roles
  When you challenge unmotivated behavior or help other team members understand their roles, you’re performing a relationship-building role and addressing challenge number two—maintaining or improving group cohesiveness.
  This type of role includes activities that improve team “chemistry,” from empathizing to confronting.

Blocking Roles
  So-called blocking roles consist of behavior that inhibits either team performance or that of individual members.
  If teams don’t confront dysfunctional members, they can destroy morale, hamper consensus building, create conflict, and hinder progress.



A leader must help members develop the attitudes and behavior that contribute to team success: interdependence, collective responsibility, shared commitment, and so forth.

KEY LEADERSHIP SKILLS
  -Demonstrate intergrity
  -Be clear and consistent
  -Generate positive energ
  -Acknowledge common points of view
  -Manage agreement and disagreement
  -Encourage and coach
  -Share information


Key Take-Aways
A team (or a work team) is a group of people with complementary skills and diverse areas of expertise who work together to achieve a specific goal.
Work teams have five key characteristics. They are accountable for achieving specific common goals. They function interdependently. They are stable. They have authority. And they operate in a social context.
Work teams may be of several types:
In the traditional manager-led team, the leader defines the team’s goals and activities and is responsible for its achieving its assigned goals.
The leader of a self-managing team may determine overall goals, but employees control the activities needed to meet them.
A cross-functional team is designed to take advantage of the special expertise of members drawn from different functional areas of the company.
On virtual teams, geographically dispersed members interact electronically in the process of pursuing a common goal.
Group cohesiveness refers to the attractiveness of a team to its members. If a group is high in cohesiveness, membership is quite satisfying to its members; if it’s low in cohesiveness, members are unhappy with it and may even try to leave it.
As the business world depends more and more on teamwork, it’s increasingly important for incoming members of the workforce to develop skills and experience in team-based activities.
Every team requires some mixture of three skill sets:
Technical skills: skills needed to perform specific tasks
Decision-making and problem-solving skills: skills needed to identify problems, evaluate alternative solutions, and decide on the best options
Interpersonal skills: skills in listening, providing feedback, and resolving conflict

IN CLASS: Professor does not expect you to memorize lists in chapters
      -Passivity: Unwillingness to cooperate with team, due to personal reasons.
    
      -Task orientation: I just want to work on my task and do my thing (very independent worker)
      -Relational orientated: Talks too much dn doesnt focus enough on work.





