Test Format

32 fill in questions (word bank)
4 short answer / list questions
Chapters 1-12 (Not including 9 and 11) 
Library Questions are not on the Test

75% - 80% on new material
1 or 2 questions per chapter for chapters 1-5

profit sharing: company: If we reach a profit target, we will give x% of that to employees

stock options: You get a contractual right to buy an amount of stock at y price for x years
  They do this sometimes to get the employees more invested into the company.

job rotation: in 2 years time you have 4 different jobs. o this to learn alot about the company. very good for employee development
job enlargement: this happens if an employee is bored with their job, so the manager gives them something new to do. No real personal growth
job enrichment: take someones job and add something to it that would normally be performed by someone at a higher level. Imporves promotability

PERT chart vs GANTT chart

PERT: Shows different work streams and allows you to see sequencing, and SHOWS THE CRITICAL PATH
GANTT: Shows you start date end date and sometimes whos responsible. CANNOT SEE CRITICAL PATH

banchmarking: when you intentionally compare some aspect of your
  business to some other business to see where you have room for improvement

Leadership styles:
  -Autocratic
    Manager tells you what to do.
  -Democratic / Participative
    Manager allows employees to provide input and then manager makes decision on what to do
  -Free Reign
    Manager sets goals, employees do as they see fit to see the job throug

Mentoring and Development
  -Transactional
    More consistent with autcratic. Employees learn from mistakes
  -Transformational
    Probably giving them training.

360 Feedback: All members give feedback on each other.
  Benefit: much more inputs   Cons: Alot of time taken to process data
Forced Ranking: Company has predistributed the scores.
  Managers propose their employees in the catagory they see fit, which is usually higher than it should.

LLC: form of business where you can spend a little amount of money to limit your liability
  Protects your personal stuff from lawsuits.

Agency problem: the managers of a company are not typically the owner of the company.
  Managers have an obligation to work in the best interest of the shareholders
    Conflict of Interest: Managers work
    
Agency problem: the managers work in their best interest instead of the best interest of the owners 
  Ony exists when owners and managers are seperate.

Rosland and Torress: Know this video, listen to what she says about leadership and groupthink.
  Listen to what she says is effective and not effective

Sourcing of Financing:
  -Friends and Family (obvious)
  -Crowdfunding
    Kickstart, GoFundMe
  -Angel Investing
    -A person who is previously very successful financially, invests in a company very early in the development,
      and wnats to see other people succeed. His return is not his motivation
  -Venture Capitol
    -More likely a company than an individual. They invest later in the companies development stage and invest much more.
      Much higher expectation on return of investment.
      
   BOTH ANGEL AND VENTURE ARE EQUITY FINANCING. TRADING DOLLARS FOR PERCENT OWNERSHIP.

Control Process:
-Setting a standard
-Measure results
-Compare them
-Ask why and find root cause
-take corrective action

Contingency planning: a backup plan for all your threats, so if they emerge, you know what you are going to do.
