All stockholders are stakeholders
not all stakeholders are stockholders

Stakeholders: People who have positive interest in the results of the company

Employees, CEO's, Local community, banks, landlords, and investors are potential stakeholders.

Competitors want them to fail
Stakeholders want them to succeed

PESTAL Model allows business to ensure they have though thouroughly about macro, or all the aspects of the world around them.
  These outside forces can really affect the success of the business

P - Political. Taxes and tariffs can seriously affect business success. Tariffs effects all across the country
E - Economic. The economy gives purchasing power to the consumers. In a good economy, more people have more money to spend
      Having a good economy is not always beneficial for the business (EX: Food market, resturant)
S - Sociocultural. Demographic trends (Ex: Raising obesity in US allows more weightloss business'. Healthcare costs increase)
                   Attitudes. Big societal shifts in attitude (Ex: Green movement, better for companies who are eco-friendly)
T - Technological. Internet. HUGE business' (uber, lyft, google, apple, e-commerce) came about because of the internet
                   Automation. Tesla has enormous robots that automates almost the entire process of building a car.
                    This has a negative impact of jobs. EX: Less cashiers, more self-checkouts machines
E - Environmental Force. Natural Items found Ex: Minerals, Oil. Supply of natural resources seriously effect prices of secondary products
          EX: Oil prices
L - Legal Environment. Same as Political.

REAL LIFE EXAMPLE:

Electric Cars

They might become the dominant driving option

As gas becomes more expensive / run out of supply
Politicians could influence people to buy electric cars IE subsities / tax breaks
T - Mechanics dont really know how to repair electric cars yet. This complementary service isnt built up enough currently
T - Charge mileage. Miles / Charge. Right now the range of an electric car is way smaller than an average gas-car
The technology has to be more affordable and lower prices. They have to be affordable for the typical consumer

Profit / Margin:  Revenue - Costs
Revenue: Sales. All the money the business takes in
Income:  Income can mean alot of things, so you need to have another descriptive word with it. Cant e used by itself
  Ex: Household income, Gross income. It can be made to equate to revenue or profit or others

Functions of a business:

Management: Top management has strategy thinking, finds its goals, essentially "how are we going to run the company?"
Operations does production. Any product thats being prouced goes through operations.
Marketing: What can we deliver that satifies the customers. Pricing, how theyre gonna get the product to the market
  "What are the customers going to want in 5 years?"
Accounting: Official scorekeepers. they produce information that goes out to investors, they keep record of what goes on inside the company
    Recording transactions, financial transactions
Human Resources: they deal with all people realted stuff. Hiring, firing, bonus programs, benefits,
      schedules (amount of shifts), employe grievances, dealing with employee unions
Finance: people who make sure there is enough money to run the business. they decide how to fund the company
Information Technology: every business has online shopping and other small programs to keep them updated. 












